---
layout: post
title: "Projects"
permalink: projects
---
<h1 class="post-title p-name"><span class="gold"> <div style="text-align:center"> Projects </div></span></h1>

<h2 class="post-title p-name"><span class="white">Capstone Seminar in Professional Issues II |  Fall 2021</span></h2>

During my Capstone Seminar in Professional Issues II, I showcased my proficiency in a range of programming languages, including C, Python, JavaScript, and ADS (Azure DevOps Services). This project served as an opportunity to demonstrate my technical skills and leadership abilities.

As the team lead, I spearheaded the development of a comprehensive system designed to ensure compliance with health and safety guidelines. The system incorporated functionalities such as face mask detection, temperature scanning, and real-time data transmission to a dedicated website. By successfully implementing these features, we created a seamless solution to monitor and enforce health protocols.

To streamline our development process, I leveraged Azure DevOps and GitHub for version control and collaboration. These tools proved instrumental in enhancing project efficiency and ensuring smooth coordination among team members. Through effective utilization of these platforms, we were able to maintain an organized workflow, track progress, and implement necessary updates seamlessly.

This project not only strengthened my technical abilities but also allowed me to cultivate essential skills in project management, teamwork, and problem-solving. I effectively led the team, coordinating efforts, delegating tasks, and fostering a collaborative environment. By promoting open communication and leveraging each team member's strengths, we achieved our project goals successfully.

I am proud to have utilized my programming skills and project management acumen to develop a solution that addresses critical health and safety concerns. This experience exemplifies my ability to combine technical expertise with practical applications to deliver innovative and impactful solutions.

#### Github reference: [f21-capgemini-cloud-fork][capstone]

[capstone]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/f21-capgemini-cloud-fork

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
- Proficiency in programming languages such as C, Python, JavaScript, and ADS, as well as working closely with a Raspberry Pi.
- Leadership abilities in spearheading the development of a comprehensive system to ensure compliance with health and safety guidelines.
- Experience in implementing features such as face mask detection, temperature scanning, and real-time data transmission.
- Utilization of Azure DevOps and GitHub for version control and collaboration, enhancing project efficiency and coordination. Project management skills in coordinating efforts, delegating tasks, and fostering a collaborative team environment.
- Strong problem-solving abilities in addressing critical health and safety concerns and delivering innovative solutions.


<h2 class="post-title p-name"><span class="white">Honors Programming | Fall 2019
</span></h2>

During my journey as a budding programmer, I had the opportunity to create simplified versions of beloved games such as Pokemon and Binding of Isaac. These projects allowed me to explore various programming concepts while showcasing my creativity and passion for game development.

In the simplified version of Pokemon, I immersed myself in the captivating world of Pokemon trainers and creatures. Through meticulous coding and design, I developed a game that captured the essence of Pokemon battles. This project not only honed my programming skills but also showcased my ability to create detailed and enjoyable gaming experiences.

Additionally, I ventured into the challenging realm of the Binding of Isaac game. Drawing inspiration from the original game's roguelike elements, I crafted a simplified version that presented players with procedurally generated levels, intense battles, and an intriguing storyline. This endeavor challenged me to master concepts such as random level generation, item acquisition, and player progression, ultimately resulting in a thrilling and engaging gameplay experience.

Through these game development projects, I have not only expanded my programming proficiency but also nurtured my creativity and problem-solving skills. I have learned the importance of attention to detail, efficient coding practices, and the ability to balance complexity with user experience to deliver captivating games.

##### Github reference: [Pokemon][pokemon]
##### Github reference: [BindingOfIsaac][isaac]

[pokemon]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/Pokemon
[isaac]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/BindingofIsaac

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
- Proficiency in game development.
- Strong programming skills in designing and implementing game mechanics, such as turn-based combat, storyline progression, procedural level generation, and item acquisition.
- Creative problem-solving abilities in balancing complexity and user experience to deliver captivating and enjoyable gaming experiences.
- Attention to detail in meticulous coding and design to capture the essence of the original games.
- Efficient coding practices in optimizing performance and ensuring smooth functionality of the games.

<h2 class="post-title p-name"><span class="white">Introduction to Programming in Java | Fall 2017</span></h2>


During my Introduction to Programming course, I gained foundational knowledge in Java programming, further honing my skills and passion for coding.

One of the highlights of this course was the opportunity to collaborate with classmates in creating engaging and interactive games. Together, we successfully developed both Snake and Connect Four games, demonstrating our proficiency in Java programming concepts and problem-solving abilities.

In the Snake game, we implemented logic to control the movement of the snake, allowing it to navigate the game board and consume food while avoiding obstacles. The Connect Four game challenged us to design an intelligent algorithm for determining winning moves and implementing a graphical user interface for an immersive gaming experience.

Through these collaborative projects, I not only enhanced my technical skills but also developed essential teamwork and communication abilities. Working effectively with others, we divided tasks, shared ideas, and incorporated different perspectives to create polished and enjoyable games.

This experience solidified my passion for programming and ignited my desire to continue exploring and contributing to the ever-evolving world of technology. It taught me the importance of collaboration, creativity, and problem-solving in delivering successful projects.

##### Github reference: [SnakeGame][snake]
##### Github reference: [ConnectFour][connect]

[snake]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/SnakeGame
[connect]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/ConnectFour/tree/main

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
- Foundational knowledge and proficiency in Java programming.
- Collaborative skills in working effectively with classmates to develop engaging games.
- Problem-solving abilities in implementing game logic for the Snake game and designing an intelligent algorithm for the Connect Four game.
- Technical skills in programming game mechanics, navigation, and user interfaces.
- Strong teamwork and communication skills in dividing tasks, sharing ideas, and incorporating diverse perspectives.

<h2 class="post-title p-name"><span class="white">Research Thesis | 2017-2019</span></h2>
During my academic journey, I embarked on an ambitious two-year research thesis that delved into the intricacies of the human thought process. This project provided me with an invaluable opportunity to explore the depths of cognitive science and psychology, unraveling the mysteries of how we think and make decisions.

Driven by curiosity and a passion for understanding the complexities of the human mind, I dedicated countless hours to conducting extensive individual research. This involved deep dives into existing literature, analyzing theories and empirical studies, and synthesizing findings to contribute to the existing body of knowledge in the field.

Recognizing the value of collaboration and diverse perspectives, I also actively engaged in networking. By connecting with esteemed professionals and scholars in the field, I had the privilege of engaging in insightful discussions, exchanging ideas, and gaining valuable insights into the latest research advancements. This networking aspect of my research allowed me to broaden my horizons, challenge my own assumptions, and integrate fresh perspectives into my work.

Throughout this research thesis, I honed critical research skills, such as formulating research questions, designing methodologies, collecting and analyzing data, and drawing meaningful conclusions. I developed a rigorous approach to inquiry, ensuring the validity and reliability of my research findings.

This research endeavor not only expanded my knowledge and understanding of the human thought process but also fostered a deep appreciation for the scientific method and the significance of evidence-based inquiry. It sharpened my analytical thinking, nurtured my intellectual curiosity, and instilled in me a lifelong passion for research and discovery.

##### GoogleDocs reference: [Thesis][thesis]

[thesis]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_3hh_YPfpVh7G8GsfRgThRltKHKMo_L6uN8Ur-mz2bU/edit?usp=sharing

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
- Proficient in research methodology, including formulating research questions, designing methodologies, and analyzing data.
- Strong critical thinking skills for evaluating and interpreting research findings.
- Effective communication abilities for presenting research findings and exchanging ideas.
- Networking proficiency in connecting with professionals and scholars in the field.
- Attention to detail and precision in research design, data collection, and analysis.


<br><br><br>To return to the home page, click the Home button in the top left.